Hi, and welcome to this lesson on the Python type hierarchy.
Now we're only going to cover a subset of this hierarchy, and in particular this is the subset that we're
going to cover in this course
in quite a bit of depth, along with some other things as well.
So we can start with numbers.
Numbers are something we use you know all the time in programming, and we can divide numbers up into
two different sections: integral numbers and non integral numbers. and by integral numbers I mean things
like integers right.
One two three.
But we also have booleans. Booleans are actually also integral numbers.
They're actually integers. And non-integral numbers we've got a few more: floats is probably the most
common one.
So if you write you know a equals 3.14 that 3.14 is a float, which is implemented as a double in
the underline c. Who also have complex numbers. Complex numbers, remember, are numbers that have a real and
imaginary part.
So we'll cover that.
Not really in depth.
This Course is not about complex numbers. But they are actually implemented in Python.
We'll also look at decimal numbers. Now decimals and floats kind of are used for the same thing, to represent
real numbers that are not integral numbers like 3.14 But it gives us a little bit more control on
the precision of the numbers.
Right.
And there's different ways that that precision is implemented between decimals and floats.
And we'll cover that in some detail in a later course. Fractions, well, fractions is just basically your
rational numbers you know one third one fifth one eighth, you know, twenty seventeens.
Things like that.
That's an interesting way of dealing with numbers, because let's say you deal with a number like one
third. Ok.
That's irrational numbers.
And it has a value, a very specific value.
ONE-THIRD But if you try and represent that as a float or even a decimal then you're really looking
at 0.333 recurring.
And we cannot represent that exactly in the programming language that we're using. In any programming
language, because we don't have an infinite number of precision, right.
We don't have an infinite amount of precision to store 0.333 recurring, which is an infinite you know
recurrence.
So, if we have to really deal with exact numbers, so we want one third plus one third plus one third to
be precisely equal to 1.
Then we need to use fractions. The next part
are collections. Now collections can be broadly divided into three different parts. We have sequences, sets
and mappings.
So in the sequences, we can further subdivide that into mutable sequences and immutable sequences and
the ones that we'll cover in this course are lists, which are mutable sequences, and tuples which are immutable
sequences. They're essentially the immutable variant of lists. But strings is also a sequence type. And
it is also an immutable type.
Then we have sets.
Now sets can also be broken down into mutable and immutable, and in this case we'll cover sets which other
mutable sets.
And we also have something called Frozen Sets which are the immutable equivalent of sets.
And lastly we'll look at dictionaries. Now dictionaries and sets, we'll see later, are actually related.
They're actually implemented very similarly.
You know, both sets and dictionaries, are basically hash maps.
The only difference is that sets are not key value pairs.
It's basically like having a dictionary that only has keys but no values.
So we'll look at into that in a lot more detail in a later par..
section. Then we also have something called Callables.
Now what are callables?
Well Callables are
anything that you can invoke, anything that you can call. So like a function for example. A function is
a callable.
So obviously user defined functions.
Then we have generators, which are things that we can use to do iteration and we'll get into a lot more
detail about generators in a later class, than we have classes themselves.
Classes are callable.
We have instance methods, which are just functions, but they're you know inside a class so they become
instance methods once the class gets instantiated.
We also have class instances that are actually callable.
You can define this method here, dunder call dunder.
That allows the class to become callable, the object or the class instance to become callable. And we'll
get into that again in a lot more detail in the object oriented section.
And then you have built in functions, right. Python has a lot of built in functions like len().
You know to get the length of the sequence for example or open() you want to open a file. You also have built
in methods.
And really they're no different than instance methods.
But for example if you have a list, well, lists have an append() method so you can append an element to
the end of the list.
These are all callables. And then we have these things hanging out there that, kind of are you know,
out on their own, and are singleton objects like None that we've seen before.
Right.
None.
Is it as an object that exists.
And whenever you set a variable to None it always points back to the same memory address that we have
for the None object.
We also have something called NotImplemented.
We'll take a look at that in more detail when we do object oriented programming.
And then we have the ellipsis() operator. Again we'll look into that in detail when we look at sequences
and you know strings and lists and so on.
It can be used for slicing.
All right.
Thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next video.